New messaging specification (replacing old deposit/withdrawal spec) (#318)
FuelLabs/fuel-specs: specs/protocol/identifiers.md

Is represented as an _outpoint_: a pair of [transaction ID](#transaction-id) as `byte[32]` and output index as a `uint8`.

### Message ID

> The ID of a message is computed as the [hash](./cryptographic_primitives.md#hashing) of the sender address `byte[32]`, recipient address `byte[32]`, the message data (either [EVM abi](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.13/abi-spec.html) or [FuelVM abi](./abi.md)/data) `byte[]`, the amount being sent with the message `uint64`, the message nonce `uint64` and the message owner (either address or predicate hash) `byte[32]`: `hash(byte[32] ++ byte[32] ++ byte[] ++ uint64 ++ uint64 ++ byte[32])`. The address values are serialized as a byte array of length 32 left-padded with zeroes, and all other value types are serialized according to the standard [transaction serialization](./tx_format.md#transaction). If the owner component is not applicable then a 32 byte long array of zeros should be used.

Reviewer: There should be a data length too, no?
```suggestion
The ID of a message is computed as the [hash](./cryptographic_primitives.md#hashing) of:

1. the sender address `byte[32]`,
1. recipient address `byte[32]`,
1. the message data `byte[]`,
1. the amount being sent with the message `uint64`,
1. the message nonce `uint64`,
1. the message owner (either address or predicate hash)

`byte[32]`: `hash(byte[32] ++ byte[32] ++ byte[] ++ uint64 ++ uint64 ++ byte[32])`. The address values are serialized as a byte array of length 32 left-padded with zeroes, and all other value types are serialized according to the standard [transaction serialization](./tx_format.md#transaction). If the owner component is not applicable then a 32 byte long array of zeros should be used.
```

Author: Not necessarily. In the solidity contracts I haven't been using an explicitly defined length. It technically reduces gas cost for hashing, but not by a lot if we find it extra useful somewhere else

Reviewer: We probably want the data length otherwise there's no way to know how long it is. I guess there's only one variable-length field, so you could infer it solely by looking at the total date length, but that seems kind of brittle.

### Output Message ID

The ID of an input message is computed as the [hash](./cryptographic_primitives.md#hashing) of:

1. the sender address as `byte[32]`,
1. recipient address as `byte[32]`,
1. the [OutputMessage nonce](#output-message-nonce) as `byte[32]`,
1. the amount being sent with the message as `uint64`,
1. the message data as `byte[]`

`hash(byte[32] ++ byte[32] ++ byte[32] ++ uint64 ++ byte[])`. The address values are serialized as a byte array of length 32 left-padded with zeroes, and all other value types are serialized according to the standard [transaction serialization](./tx_format.md#transaction). Note that the message data length is not included since there is only one dynamically sized field and can be implicitly determined by the hash preimage size.

#### Output Message Nonce

> The nonce value for `OutputMessage` is computed as the [hash](./cryptographic_primitives.md#hashing) of the [Transaction ID](#transaction-id) that the message is an output for and the index of the output as a `uint8`. `hash(byte[32] ++ uint8)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nonce value for `OutputMessage` is computed as the [hash](./cryptographic_primitives.md#hashing) of the [Transaction ID](#transaction-id) that the message is an output for and the index of the output as a `uint8`: `hash(byte[32] ++ uint8)`.
```
